# NavyOrdinanceDisposal
You are a Battleship. Try to save the fleet by detonating as many underwater mines as you can. Watch out for enemy submarines and avoid collision. Arrow Keys for Movement and Deceleration. 

/////////////

This is a reflection of my process in creating the python-based turtle game called "Navy Ordinance Disposal"

To be honest, I approached this class believing it to be a super easy course that would help me learn comp sci while balancing my schedule with four AP classes. After all, the course had the title of being introductory. I was wrong. This class while being rewarding was very frustrating when I was working home on the code with my project. Code demands perfection. One missing colon or one wrong indentation would throw my code off. Also, I don't know if this is just a visual studio code issue, but when I was debugging my program, the VS code was very vague with my mistake. For example, I had an error with a missing colon after one of my sprite classes and VS code was pointing to an error with indentation/spacing in one of my functions code; another time something was wrong with my turtle, when rather it was my game class. Ultimately, I learned that problem-solving skills ( a value that Mr. Cozort was emphaszing to instill in us) require patience. 

First, I'll talk about the source of my inspiration of my project, how I approached my project and what challenges I faced. Then, I'll discuss how my code was a visual representation of what I tried to achieve through this game project. 

I knew from the beginning of the project proposal week, I wanted to create a game with a war-theme. I used COD as an inspiration and so I came up with the idea of Aerial Strike - a game where the user tries to avoid bombs that land in the display screen. I learned that it involved too little coding and also before the end of April, I had inspiration for another game called Navy Ordinance Disposal. The idea around this game involved a turtle-battleship controlled by the user in detonating underwater mines while avoiding enemy submarines. This new game's outcome became particularly meaningful to me because I am joining Yale's Navy ROTC program and I'll serve in the Navy as an Ensign for a mandatory five years. I thought it would be fun to program a game that surrounded Naval Warfare. 

I approached the Aerial Strike project knowing that I was going to use turtle. I imported the libraries, but I also then created a superclass of sprite because I knew that the user and the bombs were going to have similiar characteristics. I also had the sprites detect borders. I basically guess and checked the x-y coordinates for an appropriate game space that the user could move around in. I also then created the Player class. Did not import any images. I also created the bomb class - now called submarine class . Did not import any images.I changed my project idea around week 6 but it wasn't a huge change because both games had sprites and collision statements between the player and the submarine (a.k.a former "bomb" class) and the new underwater mine class which I ironically called "Landmine" because it was easier to name it that way. I also created the keyboard bindings so I could move the turtle around before I created anything else. Near the end of the project, I inserted images to replace the sprites. That was super hard for me because I didn't know exactly how to import images, until someone told me that python only accepted gifs which explained the issue as I was trying different lines of codes from stack overflow. Resizing the images through photoshop and editing the gifs to make them have transparent backgrounds took a lot of time. 

I guess the hardest part of the project was creating the game class. I never knew intilaizing the game involved codes other than creating objects like sprites and having keyboard bindings. One of the hardest parts of the project was debugging like I mentioned in teh first paragraph. This project would have gone a lot faster if someone was debugging it for me. In hindsight, I probably should have asked Mr. Cozort. Also indentation was a huge issue. My If statements and my nesting was bad. Also, I didn't comment that well and to be honest I procrastinated that until the last night. 

Overall, this project was rewarding because I know a lot of vocabulary about python and computer science in general. yesterday, my friend, Trip asked me to help him with creating a score counter for his python game. He's in a different period in Intro. Code isn't a simple copy and paste. I guess in one way, I handed Trip a pencil which he needed, but I also needed to help him "paint" his specific code for his "artwork." I think thats what makes code frustrating, but also special. Once you understand code, all this formatting and diction becomes familiar and it's pretty fun when you help someone else because code serves as like a language. People are impressed when you are somewhat fluent, like when you translate for someone and both sides appreciate you for that when I'm on an immersion or whatnot. 
